Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 1 | Florida Poly
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual
Office of Graduate Studies
 
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 2 | Florida Poly
Thesis Format All students writing a thesis or formal project must follow the directions provided in this manual and the
guidance of their advisor, where noted.
Structure
Section Name Section Type Required/Optional* Numbering
Title Page Front matter Required Count but do not number
Thesis Approval Page Front matter Required Count but do not number
Dedication Page Front matter Optional Lower case Roman
numerals i. ii. iii. iv. etc
Acknowledgments Front matter Optional Lower case Roman
numerals i. ii. iii. iv. etc
Table of Contents Front matter Required Lower case Roman
numerals i. ii. iii. iv. etc
List of Tables Front matter If any tables are present Lower case Roman
numerals i. ii. iii. iv. etc
List of Figures Front matter If any figures are present Lower case Roman
numerals i. ii. iii. iv. etc
List of Abbreviations Front matter If any abbreviations are present Lower case Roman
numerals i. ii. iii. iv. etc
List of Symbols Front matter If any symbols are present Lower case Roman
numerals i. ii. iii. iv. etc
Abstract Front matter Required Count but do not number
Introduction Body content Required Arabic numerals
Literature Survey Body content Required Arabic numerals
Research
Methodology
Body content Required Arabic numerals
Results Body content Required Arabic numerals
Discussion Body content Required (may combine with Results)Arabic numerals
Conclusions Body content Required Arabic numerals
Future Work Body content Optional Arabic numerals
Appendices Back matter Required Arabic numerals
References Back matter Required Arabic numerals
*With approval from Thesis advisor, required sections may be adjusted. 
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 3 | Florida Poly
Front Matter
Title page [unnumbered]
This is the first page of the thesis, and it contains the following information:
• Thesis title (All uppercase)
• Student’s name (All small uppercase)
• Student’s existing/earned degree
• Semester and year thesis is submitted
• “A thesis submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of”
• Student’s degree to be earned
• Florida Polytechnic University
• Lakeland, Florida
The title page should be double-spaced throughout. Please note margins, spacing, capitalization, and font
- 12pt Serif (ex: Times New Roman).
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 4 | Florida Poly
Thesis Approval Page [unnumbered]
• This page is similar to the title page with the signature from the committee and the graduate
director.
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 5 | Florida Poly
• This should be single-spaced to leave room for signature block.
• Signature section is achieved with a 4-column table with grid-lines under signature and date
columns only.
Please note margins, spacing, capitalization, and font - 12pt Serif.
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 6 | Florida Poly
Dedication Page [optional, roman number]
• This is a short message from the student in tribute to a person or a cause. The dedication page
TITLE (“DEDICATION”) should be all uppercase, bold, and centered. Use a blank line to separate
the title from the body.
Acknowledgment Page [optional, roman number]
• This is a page with a thank you statement from the student to recognize those who provided
support or guidance or both. The acknowledgment page TITLE (“ACKNOWLEDGMENTS”) should
be all small caps, bold, and centered. Use a blank line to separate the title from the body.
Table of Contents [Page Number: Roman Numerals]
• The TITLE (“TABLE OF CONTENTS”) of the table of contents should be all small caps, bold, and
centered. Use a blank line to separate the title from the body.
• The entries for the table of contents must include the title of the major headings of the document,
such as chapters, sections, subsections, acknowledgments page, dedication page, references, and
appendices.
• The entries for the table of contents must include the page number for each heading.
• An optional and recommended formatting attribute is to make the entries for the table of
contents as hyperlinks that take the reader directly to the page of the clicked heading.
List of Tables [Page Number: Roman Numerals]
• Each entry in the List of Tables should include the table number, the table caption, and the page
number.
• The TITLE (“LIST OF TABLES”) of the list of tables should be all small caps, bold, and centered. Use
a blank line to separate the title from the body.
List of Figures (and Illustrations) [Page Number: Roman Numerals]
• Each entry in the List of Figures should include the figure number, the figure caption, and the page
number.
• The TITLE (“LIST OF FIGURES”) of the list of figures should be all small caps, bold, and centered.
Use a blank line to separate the title from the body
• Recommendation: If possible, use graphs instead of tables.
List of Abbreviations [optional, Page Number: Roman Numerals]
• Each entry in the List of Abbreviations must include the abbreviation and its definition.
• List the abbreviations in alphabetical order.
• The TITLE (“LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS”) of the list of abbreviations should be all small caps, bold,
and centered. Use a blank line to separate the title from the body.
List of Symbols [optional, Page Number: Roman Numerals]
• Each entry in the List of Symbols must include the symbol and its definition.
• The TITLE (“LIST OF SYMBOLS”) of the list of symbols should be all small caps, bold, and centered.
Use a blank line to separate the title from the body.
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 7 | Florida Poly
Abstract
• The abstract should be less than 450 words (check with advisor)
• The abstract is a summary of the thesis’ purpose, hypothesis, methods used, and results.
• The abstract section’s title (“Abstract”) should be title case, bold, and centered. Use a blank line
to separate the title from the advisor(s) line.
• The advisors’ line contains the list of advisors and co-advisors separated by commas. Use a blank
line to separate the advisors’ line from the body.
Content - The Chapters
Introduction [Page Number: Arabic Numerals]
• The introduction chapter should emphasize the purpose of the study and summarize the
background and importance of this research. This chapter should also clearly state the hypothesis
and the objectives of the research. Finally, this chapter should introduce the user to the outline
of the thesis.
Literature survey [Page Number: Arabic Numerals]
• The literature review will summarize the existing research in the field with references to these
research studies and their authors. At the end of the literature review, clearly state the identified
gaps in the existing research solutions and address these gaps by this thesis. In other words, you
are introducing the reader to your work in the next chapter.
Research Methodology [Page Number: Arabic Numerals]
• This chapter will provide details on the chosen methods, designs, measures, and philosophy
behind these choices. In addition, this chapter should include a description of any experiment
conducted.
Results [Page Number: Arabic Numerals]
• This chapter contains the result of the thesis. If possible, organize the thesis’s results into figures.
Otherwise, organize the results into tables. Finally, divide the results into sections and subsections
based on the research questions they address.
Discussions [Page Number: Arabic Numerals]
• This chapter contains the analysis, explanations, and discussions of the results. It should also
include statements whether the results support the hypothesis or not, with some reasoning if it
does not.
Conclusion [Page Number: Arabic Numerals]
• This chapter should be a summary of the study indicating whether the study met its goals or not.
Future Work [Page Number: Arabic Numerals]
• This chapter is a recommended optional chapter. It will present the possible future research paths
that will build on this study.
 
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 8 | Florida Poly
Back Matter
Appendices [Page Number: Arabic Numerals]
• Move any material that is not essential for the thesis to the appendices. Each appendix should
have a number and a title-examples of the material to move to appendices: code, long tables, etc.
References [Page Number: Arabic Numerals]
• Accurately and correctly generate a formatted list of all cited references in the text. Note that the
bibliography is the list of general references, including the uncited references. As a
recommendation, use only cited references and set the title of this section to be “REFERENCES.”
• If you need to include a list of uncited references in the thesis, then set the title of this section to
“BIBLIOGRAPHY.”
Important Note: The number of pages per chapter or section depends on the type of research that you
are doing. However, usually, the background or literature review chapter will take the most considerable
portion of the thesis, followed by the results analysis and discussion chapter.
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 9 | Florida Poly
Formatting
Thesis formatting requirements must be observed throughout the entire manuscript, and all chapters
must use the same formatting.
• All pages, unless otherwise stated below, should be single-column double space.
• Margins –
• 1 inch all around. Add one extra inch on the top margin of the first page of each chapter,
title page, the first page of the table of contents, acknowledgments page, dedication
page, the first page of references, and the first page of each appendix.
OR
• 1 inch all around, all pages.
• The body font is Serif font with size 12 pt. No less than 10pt font for any subscript or superscript
text.
• The text must have left justification or fill justification, but not right justification.
• Headings should not appear by themselves at the end of a page.
Page Numbering
• The numbering of all the front matter pages should be in lowercase roman numbers except for
the title page and the thesis approval page. The title and thesis approval pages don’t have
numbers. Use Arabic numerals as the page number for the rest of the pages. Start the page
numbering with the first page of chapter 1 to be page number 1.
Paragraph
• Every paragraph’s first sentence must start with an indentation of 0.5 inches except for the first
paragraph following each heading (chapter, section, subsection, and title).
Captions
• All caption numbers for tables, figures, and illustrations use Arabic numerals.
• The caption of any figure should be directly below the figure and on the same page as the figure.
The table’s caption should be directly above that table and on the same page as the table.
• The captions should be centered.
Quotations
• Quotations should be limited. Paraphrase what you want to quote in your own words, and make
sure to include the reference.
• If eliminating the quotation is not possible, then use the double quotes (“) to surround the
quotation if the quotation’s size is less than three lines or use the block quotation the quotation
is more than three lines. For block quotation, use a separate paragraph or paragraphs with a single
indentation for the whole quotation without surrounding it with double quotes.
Footnotes
• Use Arabic numerals for the footnotes.
• Footnotes should appear on the same page as their citers.
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 10 | Florida Poly
• Footnotes, like the rest of the text, must follow the margins restriction.
• A solid line separates the footnotes from the text.
• On each page, the footnotes should not exceed two inches.
References and Citations
• Use a style consistent with your discipline and approved by your committee (ex: IEEE, APA, ASME).
• References section should begin at a new page.
• Use single-spaced lines for the entries of the references. Use an empty line to separate them from
each other.
 
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 11 | Florida Poly
Intellectual Property and Copyright Information
Students should review and familiarize themselves with Florida Polytechnic University policy FPU1.0061P. This Intellectual Property policy details how the ownership of intellectual property is assigned at
the University. Sections I and J reproduced below, Student Intellectual Property and Student Sponsored
Projects, are particularly relevant for graduate students working on theses and projects:
Student Intellectual Property
The University respects the long-standing tradition that students own their academic work. In general,
any Intellectual Property (including theses and dissertations, inventions, discoveries, creations and new
technologies) conceived or first reduced to practice by a student at the University as a work product (e.g.,
homework assignments, laboratory experiments and special and independent study projects) of a “for
credit” course will be owned by the Student Creator. Generally, undergraduate and graduate Students
own any Intellectual Property that they create through enrollment in a University course for academic
credit. However, the University owns such Intellectual Property when one or more of the following apply:
1. When there is collaboration between a Student and University employee(s) to create works as
part of a sponsored research project or faculty development activities.
2. In certain courses or special projects where a Student is presented with the opportunity to
participate in a project or activity in which the ownership of any resulting Intellectual Property
must be assigned either to the University or to a sponsoring entity as a condition of the Student’s
participation.
3. When the Student is employed by the University, in which case the terms applicable to University
employees shall apply.
Although a student retains copyright ownership to his/her thesis or dissertation or other Student-created
Works, the Student grants the University permission to use, reproduce and publicly distribute copies of
those Works.
Sponsored Student Projects
1. Students are never obligated to participate in projects or activities that require the assignment of
the Student’s Intellectual Property to the University or another entity. In these situations,
Students must always be presented with two options to choose from:
a. participate in a project or activity that does not require the Student to assign his/her
Intellectual Property; or
b. participate in a project or activity that requires the Student to assign his/her Intellectual
Property.
2. A Student’s grade and/or evaluation of performance in a University course shall not be affected
by the Student’s decision to participate or not to participate in projects or activities requiring the
assignment of the Student’s Intellectual Property. Students should consider that the assignment
of Intellectual Property is a binding legal agreement and that they have the right to seek
independent legal advice at their own expense prior to signing any agreement.
3. Student project results are not the work of the University and any references either internally or
to third parties shall clearly identify the source of the student project results as student research
performed at the University without subsequent independent evaluation.
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 12 | Florida Poly
Because manuscript PDFs are archived and ultimately made available on the Internet, written permission
is needed for use and electronic publication of copyrighted text, figures, tables, and objects. Please see
Appendices for a sample copyright permission request. Also, it is wise to include a copyright page in all
electronic theses or project reports. The copyright page should appear immediately after the title page.
Proper format of this page is shown in the Copyright Page section of this manual. While it is not necessary
to register copyright, students may do so through the U.S. Copyright Office.
Using Previously Published Or Pre/In-Press Work as Body Chapter
Sometimes, the student’s thesis research or project work is conducted as part of a major research grant
or contract, or even as part of some collaborative program. The faculty advisors are likely to encourage
these students to report their results as soon as possible, the result being that students may have the
opportunity to publish material prior to preparing the thesis or project report. In such cases, pre-press,
in-press or previously published materials may be incorporated into the thesis or project report if
approved by the Thesis Committee or Project Advisory Group and formatted in accordance with all
requirements specified in this manual. This format may include one or more full-length papers (published
and/or to be published) that are joined through introductory and/or transition sections.
• All articles/chapters to be included in a manuscript must have a common thread and must study
a common problem; collections of unrelated papers are not acceptable.
• The inclusion of any articles that are previously published, in press, or accepted for publication
requires that the student obtain permission from the copyright holder. The copyright
release/permission letter(s) should be included with the manuscript, in an appendix (see
Appendix D for an example).
• A statement disclosing previous publication must be placed at the beginning of or in a footnote
on the first page of each chapter or section with previously published content.
• The statement should include the author name(s), publication name, edition, and date of
publication; pending publications should list anticipated edition and/or dates.
Co-authored material will only be considered if
• The Graduate Thesis Committee agree that the student is primarily responsible for the article’s
content;
• Those portions and materials contributed by the student are identified;
• Permission is granted by the co-author(s); and
• The program or department approves the inclusion of the articles in question.
• No multiple-authored theses are acceptable.
• Only articles that the student prepared while working as a Florida Poly student will be acceptable
for inclusion in a manuscript.
• A single abstract and introduction chapter for the manuscript are required, even if individual
chapters have their own abstract and introduction.
• References for previously-published sections can be collected by chapter or in one reference
section at the end of the document.
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 13 | Florida Poly
Example Copyright Permission Letter
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 14 | Florida Poly
Timeline and Procedures Timeline
The following timeline is a guide to help you plan your path to thesis completion. Each department or
advisor may have additional (or earlier) procedures and deadlines for the following activities.
Semester 1: Exploration
Throughout the semester:
 Explore research topics and potential thesis advisors (if not already selected).
Your department may ask for a thesis pre-proposal prior to end of fall term.
Semester 2: Proposal and Committee
No later than 2nd week:
 Identify your thesis advisor.
No later than end of term:
 Defend your thesis proposal.
 Submit an approved Thesis Proposal Form and Thesis Committee Form to Registrar’s
Office. Submission of these two forms is required to register for Thesis 1.
Summer
Throughout the semester:
 Coordinate with thesis advisor on research efforts.
Semester 3: Research and Writing
Throughout the semester:
 Enroll in Thesis 1.
 Meet regularly with your thesis advisor and provide progress reports as appropriate.
Semester 4: Defense, Format Review, and Submission
Throughout the semester:
 Enroll in Thesis 2.
 Apply for graduation (Reference Academic Calendar)
At least 4 weeks prior to the date of the thesis defense, no later than the Monday of Week 11:
 Submit a draft to your advisor and committee in preparation of the thesis defense.
At least 2 weeks prior to the date of the thesis defense, no later than the Friday of Week 13:
 Submit final draft to the thesis committee.
 Submit final draft to ogs@floridapoly.edu for format review and feedback.
 Submit an announcement request (after committee approval) to ogs@floridapoly.edu for
distribution of your defense date to all faculty, students, and staff in the Weekly Phoenix.
By the last day of classes:
 Defend your thesis. Committee will provide notes and required edits, if needed.
By the last day of finals:
 Submit final thesis PDF to committee for signature.
 Submit final thesis PDF to Graduate Director for final approval/signature
(ogs@floridapoly.edu).
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 15 | Florida Poly
Committee
Students must have a Graduate Thesis Committee and a Thesis Advisor, who is their Committee Chair, as
part of their thesis requirements per FPU 5.0123AP. Prior to the assignment of the Thesis Advisor, the
department may provide interim advising for the student.
Thesis Advisor/Committee Chair
Requirements:
• Full-time faculty member (not adjunct, nor visiting, nor courtesy).
• Employed within the department which houses the master’s degree, and an expert in the subject
matter of the proposed thesis.
Responsibilities include, but may not be limited to:
• Advising the student’s course of study,
• Forming the committee in consultation with Department Chair, and
• Supervising the students’ research.
• Review and approval for the thesis content and format and working with the student and
committee to schedule a defense.
Committee Members
Requirements:
• Comprised of at least three full-time faculty members (not adjunct, nor visiting, nor courtesy)
which includes the thesis advisor.
• One member should be from outside the department but with experience relevant to the
student’s research area.
• Department Chair must approve the makeup of the Committee.
• Note about External Members:
• In appropriate cases, industry partners may serve on the Committee as members
in addition to minimum required full-time faculty by approval of department chair. These
members will be referred to as Outside Committee Members and must have experience
relevant to the student’s research area. If students wish to include Outside Committee
Members in their committee, they will need to submit a non-remuneration form along
with their Thesis Committee Form, which can be requested from ogs@floridapoly.edu.
Changing the Committee Membership
Committee membership may not be changed at the student’s request in the last semester before
graduation, without chair approval. Committee membership may be changed and approved, including the
committee chair, by submitting an updated committee form.
 
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 16 | Florida Poly
Procedures
Additional details on rules and deliverables are detailed below. Students should consult with their Thesis
advisor for any additional requirements.
Thesis Proposal
Thesis proposals must be approved and submitted by the end of the second term of graduate study. Each
department may choose to include a more formal review process for thesis proposals, but all thesis
proposals must be approved by, at minimum, the Thesis Committee and the Department Chair. The thesis
proposal usually includes:
1. An abstract that provides a brief description of the problem statement and expected solution;
2. A survey of current literature regarding the problem statement that demonstrates why the
problem statement is important and how it aligns with the student’s research interest and course
of study (students are encouraged to use reference management software such as Zotero to make
additions of references and generation of bibliography easy);
3. A description of the work to be performed, and how and where it will be performed. This section
should convince the reader that the student has considered the problem and has a research plan
that can be executed with the available resources and in the time that is appropriate for a master’s
thesis.
4. A Gannt chart of tasks, milestones, or overall project schedule.
Approved proposals must be retained by the thesis committee.
Thesis Defense Announcement
After advisor approval in the final semester, students may announce their oral examination (defense),
due at least two weeks prior to the defense date.
Prepare your announcement in consultation with your Thesis Advisor. Most students simply use their
abstract for the body of the announcement. The announcement should include:
1. Date, time, location, and thesis/report title.
2. Brief summary of the thesis (3-4 sentences).
3. The student’s current major course of study.
4. A list of all members of the Thesis Committee.
5. Note that the public is welcome to attend.
Thesis Format and Timeline Manual: 2025-2026 | 17 | Florida Poly
Oral Examination - The Defense
Thesis students must perform a public defense of their work in their final semester in order to graduate.
The defense date must completed by the last day of classes. All committee members should be present
at the defense and the thesis must have been submitted to the committee at least two weeks before the
defense. Thesis advisors are responsible for working with the students to ensure that all committee
members receive the thesis in an appropriate time.
Signatures and Submission
Upon successful completion and defense of the thesis report, the student must obtain all
Committee signatures, then send to the Office of Graduate Studies by emailing ogs@floridapoly.edu by
the last day of finals. The Office of Graduate Studies will obtain the Graduate Director’s signature on the
student’s behalf. Upon receiving the final signature, the Office of Graduate Studies will submit to the
University Registrar (cc:ing the student and committee members) to finalize requirements for the degree
and to the degree granting department.
Acceptance
A thesis is formally accepted at the discretion of the Thesis Committee, Thesis Advisor, Department Chair,
and the Graduate Director upon signing the thesis. Students should thoroughly read and abide by the
Thesis Format Manual, as format is a requirement for acceptance. Once all signatures are received, the
Office of Graduate Studies will submit to the University Registrar to finalize requirements for the
degree conferral.
Thesis Terms and Definitions
Program Advisor: a student’s initial faculty advisor upon entering the program.
Thesis Advisor/Committee Chair: the student’s faculty advisor who takes over from the program advisor
once established as the committee chair or advisor for the student’s thesis. The thesis advisor/committee
chair directs the student’s research and advises on course selection and other aspects of the program.
Committee Member: a faculty member who serves on the student’s thesis committee.
Outside Committee Member: A member of the student’s thesis committee who is not from the
department offering the student’s selected track but provides external evaluation of the student’s thesis
and research.